- [Instructor] We are now going to configure
an embedded database that we can use
throughout this course.
So the first thing I was like you to do
is go ahead and open up your IDE.
And you'll notice in the exercise files for this course,
that I've given you a data.sql and a schema.sql
that are in the bin directory.
I'd like you to copy those into source main resources,
just at the root folder there.
So take a look at the data file as well as the schema file.
And you'll see that I create some tables.
We also have the data file that inserts that data
into the tables.
And we'll use that later on throughout this course.
Now, the next thing that we need to do
is we need to open up the pom.xml file,
and we're going to add a couple of dependencies to it.
So the first one that we are going to add
is spring-boot-starter-data-jpa.
And that comes from org.springframeworkboot.
You do not need a version
because the parent pom will take care of that for you.
And the next one that we need to add is the h2-database.
And that comes from com.h2database.
And now I'm going to run a Maven command
to import these resources.
Now we're almost done to the point
that we can actually use this database
because a couple more values that we need to put.
This time I want you to open up
the application.properties file
in source main resources.
And the first one that we are going to add
is logging.level.org.springframework-
jdbc.datasource.init.scriptUtils.
Now, what we're going to do is we're going to
set this equal to debug by default,
as of about springboot-2.3 maybe.
What we saw was they moved what used to be info messages
into debug messages.
So we need to set the logging level of our scriptUtils
to debug so we can actually see
what goes on during start up.
We would never do this in a production instance.
It's only so you can visualize what's going on.
Now, the other thing that we need to add
is spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto.
And we need to set that equal to none.
Now, the reason we're doing that is
because we've already applied a schema
to our embedded database and populated it with data.
If we don't set none here and we ran our application,
it would go ahead and import the schema and the data
via the scriptUtils.
But then hibernate would take over
and remove those data tables and add new ones
based on the fact that it believes
it's controlling the schema.
So by setting ddl-auto to none,
we're going to tell hibernate, don't create the schema.
We've got it handled, just connect to the database.
Now that is it.
That's all we need to embed a database into our application.
So I want you to go ahead and run this.
And I have this run command,
as you've seen me click on my IVE.
You may need to do a Maven Clean Package and then do a run,
or you may need to run the main file.
It just depends on your IDE.
But I'm going to go ahead and click this.
And what we're going to look at is
we're actually going to look at the console output
of our running application.
So if we scroll back up to the top,
you'll see the spring banner.
We're running springboot-2.5.6.
You can see that Tomcat has been initialized on port 8080.
And then we get down into this Hikari pool.
So it's set up a Hikari data source,
meaning that thread pooling is turned on
and it is going to execute a script.
And the first script that it execute
is called schema.sql, and that's by convention.
In there, it builds the three tables,
does some ultra tables and creates an index for us
that we will use throughout this course.
It then goes through and runs the data.sql file.
And in this file, I am simply embedding a whole bunch
of data into our database.
So at this point, we're pretty confident
that we have data running that we can use.
And that's what we're going to build off of,
in the next video.